The President:
Hi, everybody.
For the past couple of months,
I've been working with people in
both parties -- with the help
of business leaders and ordinary
Americans -- to come together
around a plan to grow the
economy and shrink our deficits.
It's a balanced plan -- one that
would protect the middle class,
cut spending in a
responsible way,
and ask the wealthiest
Americans to pay a little more.
And I'll keep working with
anybody who's serious about
getting a comprehensive
plan like this done --
because it's the right thing
to do for our economic growth.
But we're now at the point
where, in just a couple of days,
the law says that every
American's tax rates are
going up.
Every American's paycheck
will get a lot smaller.
And that would be the wrong
thing to do for our economy.
It would hurt
middle-class families,
and it would hurt the businesses
that depend on your spending.
And Congress can prevent it
from happening, if they act now.
Leaders in Congress are working
on a way to prevent this tax
hike on the middle class, and I
believe we may be able to reach
an agreement that can
pass both houses in time.
But if an agreement
isn't reached on time,
then I'll urge the Senate to
hold an up-or-down vote on a
basic package that protects the
middle class from an income tax
hike, extends vital unemployment
insurance for Americans looking
for a job, and lays the
groundwork for future progress
on more economic growth
and deficit reduction.
I believe such a proposal could
pass both houses with bipartisan
majorities -- as long as these
leaders allow it to come
to a vote.
If they still want to vote no,
and let tax hikes hit the middle
class, that's their
prerogative --
but they should let
everybody else vote as well.
That's the way this
is supposed to work.
We just can't afford a
politically self-inflicted wound
to our economy.
The economy is growing, but
keeping it that way means that
the folks you sent to Washington
have to do their jobs.
The housing market is healing,
but that could stall if folks
are seeing smaller paychecks.
The unemployment rate is the
lowest it's been since 2008,
but already, families and
businesses are starting to hold
back because of the dysfunction
they see in Washington.
You meet your deadlines.
You meet your responsibilities
every single day.
The folks you sent here to
serve should do the same.
We cannot let Washington
politics get in the way of
America's progress.
We've got to do what it takes
to protect the middle class,
grow this economy, and
move our country forward.
Thanks, everybody.